# 2021-12-6

Agenda Items:
* RSNA
  * Mohannad is a rockstar!
  * HyperFine is cool
    * Runs on 110v
    * .64 T
    * Super Small
  * RSNA AI/ML Stuff
    * More info here: https://www.rsna.org/education/ai-resources-and-training/ai-imaging-in-practice
    * Mohannad was Terry Sippel's side kick
    * Premise was simple - "Imaging AI in parctice demo"
    * Under the hood it was an interoperability example
    * Impressions:
      * Steve Borg - interoperability was highlighted.  Went from philips to lunit to ?
  * Mohannad - 
    * Startup "Within health"
      * Neat followup solution
      * What stood out - how they figured out the end to end problem
        * communicating with patient, nagging them
        * Create roadmap of actions "how to get people to do followup"
        * Woojin Kim is advisor
  * Attendance? - 40% of normal - 20,000
  * Vendors said booth traffic was not effected much, interactions were good
  * Fun game: https://bsbingo.techiemaestro.com/
  * https://twitter.com/shadowdoc/status/1466440302626058245?s=21


* How to embed AI results in reporting (David Kwan)
  * Problem: AI in the real world doesn't work (designed around a specific cohort)
  * Need metadata for AI results in standards
    * Localation of scan?
    * Vendor
    * Product
    * Version
  * Mohannad - yes have thought about it somewhat, but nothing in the works yet?
    * Many vendors were so new to AI/ML that they weren't familiar with the standards
    * Demo does not force any vendor to do any particular thing
    * Federated learning was featuree in the demo (nvidia/microsoft)
    * If you are interested in joing the AI demo for RSNA 2022, talk to Mohannad Hussain
  * Difficult to retrain a model and have any guarantees on performance
    * e.g. tune on local cohort - cannot guarantee it has same performance if expanded to include other images
  * Q: Is this question for medical devices (FDA) or from medical report perspective?
    * David Kwan: Both
      * Medical Devices - Point of Care (POC) US - used in ER or in surgery.
        * problem with POC US, does not fit usualy diagnostic imaging workflow 
        * PACS is order based workflow
        * IHE has a profile for encounter based workflow
        * In federated learning - need to know acquisition device details (version, vendor, product, etc)
      * Reporting
        * if physicial takes an AI result - the metadata must be present (vendor, product, version)
          * Needed in case of possible mal practice suite
        * Most radiologists are having a hard time retreiving the metadata and inserting it into the report
          * Radiology report is today still just text (HL7 OBX segment)
    * Related issue - acquisition device Q/C *phantom scanning)  
  * Q: Should reports be stored as JSON in a standard form with metadata not rendered to the rad?
    * DICOM has a JSON mapping
    * DICOM also has structured report IOD
      * Plain text / OBX reporting is the norm in radiology, but really needs an overhaul 
  * Liability - who is responsible if a radiologist accepts an AI result and its wrong?
  * Lung nodules - very time consuming to count/measure/report - AI can help a lot

* Controversial subject - how important are standards in the era of web and cloud computing?

* JPEG-XL DICOM WorkItem Approved
  * NOTE - it is NOT added to the standard yet, just approved to propose it to the standard
  * Main use case for JPEG-XL is to replace JPEG baseline for lossy color images
  * Better compression, better color accuracy, faster
* Q: How often is lossy compression used for diagnosis?
  * BIG CAN OF WORMS
  * It can be, but not allowed in some places
  * used when bandwidth is limited (e.g. teleradiology, disadvantaged countries - especially less litigious)
  * There are established ways to use lossy for interpretation
  * Many radiologists refuse to read lossy images 

