# 2022-01-24

## Agenda

* OHIF Presentation from project week: https://vimeo.com/668339696/63a2c48de8

* SIIM Talk on open source and difference it makes in world (Mohannad )
  * https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZfXtQ1FEOoY

* Video recording of this meeting?
  * Full recording would change the discussion somewhat
  * Ideas
    * Record part of it (specific topic)
    * Do a once a month recording?

* Multimedia report project: https://github.com/chafey/multimedia-report
  * With existing products - links can become broken - especially outside the organization
    * Security/privacy issues - once they get out, no control
      * Waiver?
  * Save time for physicians
  * Patients really like these reports
  * for those who aren't aware, https://github.com/MGHComputationalPathology/highdicom allows for fairly easy python construction of SR, etc
  
* Patients are seeing reports before referring physician
  * Patients come prepared with questions for physician
  * Goes beyond language - involves workflow (who sees what when) 
  * Should patients be able to talk to radiologist and ask questions?
  * Some institutions have a policy where there is an embargo where patients cannot see reports for a period of time (24 hours)
  * Regulatory aspects - legislation that addresses information access to patient "information blocking"
  * Third party service that a patient could pay for to get results explained to them NOW
    * Reduces physician burnout (DMs via patient portal)
    * Asking questions beyond their understanding 
  * Who is the authoritative person to ask that understands the broader patient context?  
    * Referring physician
  * "Every radiology report is a negotiation"
    * Not uncommon as an interventional radiologist will disagree with other physicians
    * Want to avoid situation where physician discounts what radiologist says
      * Want tools that empower the collaboration - like it used to be before everything went digital
    * 

* IBM Watson Health divesture to PE firm
  * Will IBM Watson do anything in healthcare AI?  Did they retain any healthcare IP?  unclear
  * Was really hyped initially - big plans, but went quiet 9 months later?
  * Watson health story seemed to more marketing hype than product?

* Moving meeting time between two times (for austrailia, asia time zones)
  * Try out a late call once a month

