# 2022-03-28

## Agenda
* Question from Adam: Processing and anonymizing DICOM, segmentation. Recently added support for multiframes - splitting them into single DICOMs. What is the standard way to deal with multiframes?
  * Simon: multiframe didn't catch-on as we would have liked. Seen most ML implementations split them up. There are libraries to do that, e.g. dcm4che (converting both ways multiframe <-> single frame)
  * Mohannad pointed out difference between dcm4chee vs dcm4che, as well as 2.x vs 5.x branches (entirely different, total re-write)
  * Neil pointed out a Twitter community for ML in Healthcare: https://twitter.com/i/communities/1506797413922750466. Pretty new feature of Twitter. Not a fan of Twitter but trying it out. This community is moderated (currently the only moderator but happy to expand).
  * Jean-Francois: could also transcode to something that's really fast to load, and track the offsets of the frames.
  * Neil: Transformations and 2D vs 3D models could change you'd process a series of images.
  * Sandor: In recent/older Kaggle contests pretty good results were achieved by 2.5D models. Changing a 2D model with a (R,G,B) channel image as input could be changed to use a greyscale (layer-1, layer, layer+1) structure. SO it got kind-of "volumetric aware" 
  * Mohannad: Always tricky with communities, e.g. Slack or Discord vs. Mailing lists (aren't we all drowning in emails?)
  * Simon: A number of communities actively use Discord. Link to **this** comunity's Discord: https://discord.gg/GZmcTRT3


 ---
 
 * Interactive Multimedia Reportings (IHE_IMR profile)
  * Link to profile: https://profiles.ihe.net/RAD/IMR/index.html. 
  * Published a couple of weeks ago for [public comments](https://www.ihe.net/resources/public_comment/?utm_source=Technical+Frameworks&utm_campaign=3869f162e6-TF_Document_Publication_2019_08_09_RAD_COPY_01&utm_medium=email&utm_term=0_16719e7a1e-3869f162e6-432647803#radiology). Go to IHE Radiology and you'll see AIR+ and this profile, IMR. Comments needed by September, in time for the IHE connectathon.
  * FHIR DiagnosticReport as the framework to create a new report. DICOMweb first, DIMSE second for image references.
  * Providing a way for report creators, EMRs and PACS to integrate
  * Also builds on top of IID (Invoke Image Display)
  * Have buy-in for Nuance and MModal, hoping to demonstrate at RSNA (Imaging AI in Practice demo). Other smaller vendors too.
  * Will present more info at a later date.
  * Kinson Ho and Seth Berkowitz are lead author
  * Three scenarios for integrations, e.g.:
    * Highly integrated, interactive viewer
    * In the EMR, with a zero-footprint viewer
  * Invoker actor, facilitates communication between PACS and display
  * Fallback to OBX segment
  * Mohannad: I think IID is due for overhall. It is good enough for IMR, but beyond that (general workflows), it is due for updates. IID came out 7+ years, when a URL integration was cutting edge, but nowadays we should be able to do a lot more with things like FHIRcast
  * David: Kinson thought about that, but decided against it
  * Neil: What's the primary usecase? E.g. patient views their report and we want to show them images in-line? 
  * David: Definitely a usecase but plenty of others. E.g. referncing a prior study/report. Also the referring doctor/GP viewing the report. Were very ambitious but had to scale it back for a number of issues, security being a prominent one.
  * Simon: Incorporating [FHIR ImagingSelection](https://hl7.org/fhir/5.0.0-snapshot1/imagingselection.html)?
  * Seth: Yes, this is a first step (putting a flag in the ground), future iterations would grow to include features like this.
  * David: PDF vs. interactive HTML document. Trying not to leave any legacy systems behind. Multiple formats supported.
  * Mohannad: Europe was way ahead as far as patient portal implementations, should have helpful input here.

---

* Announcements from Mohannad
  * [SIIM Hackathon](https://siim.org/page/hacking_healthcare)
    * Register for slack & brainstorming session
    * Webinar links coming soon
    * Spread the word
  * [RSNA Imaging AI in Practice 2022 Demo](https://www.rsna.org/education/ai-resources-and-training/ai-imaging-in-practice)
    *  Any interested parties to register for the kick-off call. Contact Mohanand for details

