# 2022-01-03

Agenda Items:

* How to size an archive for a hospital? (# xrays, cts, etc)
  * http://www.pacscalculator.com/
  * Market Definition
    * Hospitals/Health Systems
      * T Shirt Sizes : S, M, L, XL (20+ in US - Kaiser, MGB, HCA, CHI)
      * Small - 0-50,000 studies/year - 
      * Medium - 50,000 - 200,000 studies/year
      * Large - 200,000 - 1.5M /uyear - 80 rads / 1M Studies
      * XLarge - 1.5M+
    * Imaging Centers
    * Rad Groups
    * Teleradiology
  * Which departments?
    * General Radiology - 
      * 40% X-Ray 
        * 70% 2 View Chest Xrays - 24MB UN/10MB C
        * 10% 1 View Portal XRays - 10MB UN/5MB C
        * 20% - other stuff
      * 20% CT
        * 300-2000 images - average 500
      * 10% MRI
        * 300-18,000 images - average 400
      * 10% US
        * ??
      * Everything else - 20%
  * Most hospitals know there data (modality mix, # procedures, # rads, type of scanner)
  * One common view is that average study size is 50MB (skewed by high number of XRays)

* Protocol Versioning

* PACS Pricing Models 
  * Pay per study
  * Pay per consumption (like cloud) 
  * How are old exams going to be paid for?

* Initiatives that the industry(we?) should pursue in 2022
  * Predictions for industry on Dec 31, 2022
  * Trends
    * Home/Virtual healthcare
    *   
    * Modality as a service?
      * Point of care ultrasound (butterfly)
      * Hyperfine / Portable MRI
  * Technology that other verticals are leveraging that should be coming into the industry
    * AI/ML
    * Value based care - how it relates to AI/ML
    * Metaverse?
    * Blockchain?
    * Agile vs Waterfall BUSINESS MINDSET
    * Cloud (duh - no brainer)
      * Object Storage
      * Serverless technologies
      * Managed Databases
      * Infrastructure as code (IAC)
    * Tyto Care Device

  * Current situation in american hospitals (covid)
    * www.reddit.com/r/nursing



Chat Log
--------
Brad Genereaux to Everyone (10:04 AM)
This one I think you mean - http://www.pacscalculator.com/
STEVEN BORG to Everyone (10:05 AM)
Yep, that's the one!
Sandor dr Konya to Everyone (10:18 AM)
cardiology fluoroscopy / qngio suite images can be incredibly huge.
Simon Rascovsky to Everyone (10:19 AM)
[file: Screen Shot 2022-01-03 at 11.18.53 AM.png]
That’s just a volume distribution for a large academic site. Not storage size.
Brad Genereaux to Everyone (10:20 AM)
One of my favorite articles looking at business models in medical imaging; focuses on AI but the concepts can be somewhat generally applied - https://www.signifyresearch.net/medical-imaging/business-models-ai-medical-imaging/
Sandor dr Konya to Everyone (10:20 AM)
> That’s just a volume distribution for a large academic site. Not storage size.
ok
STEVEN BORG to Everyone (10:24 AM)
Thanks!
Simon Rascovsky to Everyone (10:26 AM)
There’s a lot of variability in reading volumes per rad and modality. this is a year’s worth for an institution with ~500,000/year, 150+ rads:
Simon Rascovsky to Everyone (10:26 AM)
[file: Reading provider volume per modality.png]
STEVEN BORG to Everyone (10:28 AM)
@Jean-Francois, you make an EXCELLENT point.  I've considered it, but was looking at 3x retrieval per first year (then down to 1/2 year), not 7x.  Is 7x per first year?
Jean-Francois Pambrun to Everyone (10:30 AM)
This ~7x figure is from historical data. Counting coordinator, QA, residents, viewing priors etc. I don't know about the average timelines.
STEVEN BORG to Everyone (10:32 AM)
Thank you!
Very valuable
@simon, what is the X-axis on your graph.
Jean-Francois Pambrun to Everyone (10:36 AM)
pay per view means shifting a big part of the risk on the consumer.. a likely though sell..
Simon Rascovsky to Everyone (10:37 AM)
@steve: It’s individual radiologists at that org.
STEVEN BORG to Everyone (10:37 AM)
Got it!  Thanks!
Sandor dr Konya to Everyone (10:40 AM)
how would industry solve research purpose study retrievals?  🤔  if I would like to access 100k xrays for a classification problem, it would cost a fortune from cloud wouldn't it?
Daniel Mwambi to Everyone (10:41 AM)
PACS-coin 😅
Danyell Wilt to Everyone (10:42 AM)
Sd - Do the research in the cloud rather than egressing the data? You can do the classification using resources in the cloud without needing to move the dataset.
Jean-Francois Pambrun to Everyone (10:42 AM)
do your ml in the same cloud so you don't have to pay egress
Sandor dr Konya to Everyone (10:43 AM)
oh, so I pay then for computation too...
beautiful future for self initiated research =/
Jean-Francois Pambrun to Everyone (10:46 AM)
you need money to make real research on pixel data.. v100 GPUs or whatever are few $ per hours and you can spin up/down in few seconds..
Jean-Francois Pambrun to Everyone (10:47 AM)
engineer cost 70-100+$/hr, you should be able to pay few dollars per hours for GPUs
STEVEN BORG to Everyone (10:47 AM)
https://www.tytocare.com/
https://www.veri.co/
Daniel Mwambi to Everyone (10:51 AM)
Could point of care ultrasound replace the stethoscope in the future?
Danyell Wilt to Everyone (10:51 AM)
Locums work
Sandor dr Konya to Everyone (10:52 AM)
the problem is not the few bucks / hours... rather the time. now I can buy a few rtx30XX for some thousand $ that run 7/24 for few years and can get the job done... run a cloud computation (amd re run 100x) ... noone can afford it in the long run.
Simon Rascovsky to Everyone (10:53 AM)
@Daniel, the stethoscope, it could but it’s also much more complex to use, more expensive and there are hundreds of years of common knowledge on chest sounds that is useful.
https://cuehealth.com
https://detect.com
Jean-Francois Pambrun to Everyone (10:54 AM)
8gb of VRAM is limiting for one. Seconddly, you could wait a year with 4000$ of consumer GPU or spend a few grand over night and get the result the next morning..
Sandor dr Konya to Everyone (10:55 AM)
sure, I agree, thats an option and if the research has unlimited funds is the way to go =)
Simon Rascovsky to Everyone (10:56 AM)
https://youtu.be/tEt51zu5gm4?t=21
Jean-Francois Pambrun to Everyone (10:56 AM)
you (and academia) consider your time not to be worth enough IMO
Sandor dr Konya to Everyone (10:57 AM)
@Jean =)=)