# 2022-05-08

## Agenda

* Controversial topic: What happens when there are more procedures than rads to read them?
  * "AI will not replace radiologists"
    * AI will remove the "easy part" - normal detection, screening, 
    * Cancer registries are behind by 4-5 years
    * Cancer screening is currently lagging where it was pre-pandemic
      * -> we are picking up less and less advanced cancer cases, mortality will increase
    * Rads will get more complicated procedures
    * FDA needs to change - too difficult/time consuming to get new AI algorithms to market
    * "Fee for service is not sustianable" - must change
    * Must use AI for cancer - its highly complex so can't keep doing it the old way
    * reporting requirements are causing burn out
  * Pooling radiologists will help with supply 
    * Will need to reduce regulations for this
  * "Radiologists need to see normals, otherwise they might not recognize a normal"
  * "we are very far away from replacing radiologists with AI - from a quality POV"
  * "AI will be used for tedious tasks - flagging normals / anomolies"
    * will make radiologist workflow faster
  * "Need to adapt FDA regulatory so things are more standardized and streamlined"
    * Today dealing with a lot of mis-classifications
    * Radiologists are overwhelemed by different AI vendors, quantity of work
    * AI vendors should make sure they are presenting their findings in a similar manner
  * "Part of it is a supply issue.  Many more MR exams per capita are done in the US and Japan relative to other countries."
    * https://www.commonwealthfund.org/international-health-policy-center/system-stats/mri-exams-per-1000
    * Eg - while pumping gas in Japan, you can get a brain MRI for $170. https://mainichi.jp/english/articles/20220423/p2a/00m/0sc/018000c 
  * "AI will never work unless its tightly integrated with the main system you are reading on"
    * very jarring to switch from one system to another
    * AI Integration still in its infancy - we haven't found a good way to do this yet (not solved)
    * Most (all?) tools are single pathology.  Radiologists can generally find a wider variety quicker than AI is able to do, especially with fragmentation in user experience
    * 
  * Here’s the question I wonder : What and when will be the ChatGPT for radiology?
    * No time soon as we don't have access to large quantities of data like ChatGPT did with the internet
      * Need to get images to the Cloud (provides access and scale)
    * https://github.com/wasserth/TotalSegmentator - closest single algorithm
  * Would you trust a ChatGPT like radiology report generator?
    * depends on performance 
  * Regulatory Part
    * FDA has a very tough job
      * hard to implement regulations that work for everything
    * FDA requires that labels submitted with 510k be created by US board certified radiologists
  * "It was just 10 years ago when meaningful radiology residency programs were rescinding offered positions due to the ‘death of radiology’…https://www.nytimes.com/2013/03/28/health/trainees-in-radiology-and-other-specialties-see-dream-jobs-disappearing.html"
  * "DEXA is mostly automated and probably can be completely automated"
    * Dexa, Bone Age, RECIST measurements all possible
  * "This was an interesting read, on a doctor using ChatGPT in the emergency department. https://inflecthealth.medium.com/im-an-er-doctor-here-s-what-i-found-when-i-asked-chatgpt-to-diagnose-my-patients-7829c375a9da"
  * "It was just 10 years ago when meaningful radiology residency programs were rescinding offered positions due to the ‘death of radiology’…https://www.nytimes.com/2013/03/28/health/trainees-in-radiology-and-other-specialties-see-dream-jobs-disappearing.html"
  * Where I see hope
    * Payor and Provider are the same
      * Nationalized health care
    * Large health systems with strong AI programs
    * Large radiology practices (with strong AI Programs)
    * Tech enablement
      * Cloud
      * Viewer platforms (OHIF)

  * Krishna Juluru joining the FDA;s Digital Health Center of Excellence as Medical Officer should help FDA deal with the issues we described https://www.linkedin.com/posts/activity-7061308755904188416-1oX7?utm_source=share&utm_medium=member_desktop
  * What Kent said about how they (Rad Partners) are implementing AI a few sessions ago was one of the best things I have heard.  They seem to have the scale, patience and informatics budget to make it really work.
  * Frameworks are also key. E.g., PyDicom, MONAI, HighDICOM - all are abstracting complex lower layers so we can focus on building the solutions that matter.