# 2022-02-06

## Agenda
* Medical Imaging and Clinical Trials - Alex McFerran
  * $7M day hit to revenue for schedule slips (goes in reverse too!)
  * Clinical Trial procedures are read locally as well (liability)
  * Alex to provide a link to google docs
* Workflow optimization - Jason H
  * Specific tools to make things faster
  * Interoperability
  * Are there companies thinking about orchestration of workflow faster?
    * Epic driven workflow(worklist).  When study is opened, launches image viewer in Visage.  Then press dicate,
      launches powerscribe.  Doing it once is fast.  Time to go between scans - 15-20 secondes (close report in PS, refresh worklist in Epic, launch new study)
    * Opening the next study takes a mintue?  Too long!
    * What if the next study could be opened in less than a second - throughput doubled (e.g. plain films)
      * "Auto workflow" - very fast (Clario/Intellerad/PowerScribe).
        * How long from sign to next images displayed (2-3 seconds)
        * Prefetching happening?  No
        * Does this include EHR Chart?  No - this is a telerad workflow
  * Many times it isn't easy to pin down where the delays are with numbers
    * often related to authentication/systems syncing
    * difficult to instrument because different vendors with different levels of visibility
  * Microsoft Process Monitor - helpful to understand what is going on
    * https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/sysinternals/downloads/procmon
    * Shows latency at the process level
    * Virus Scanners couuld hold onto file, causing latency
    * Security lock downs (ransomware, security breaches)
  * Another example - constant complaints about time it takes to go between exams (philips, medicalis, powerscribe, primoridal?)
  * Another example - discussion on this last nov, going on right now in IHE Radiollogy Technical Comittee
    * https://wiki.ihe.net/index.php/Realtime_Bidirectional_Communication_for_Interactive_Multimedia_Reporting_-_Detailed
    * https://wiki.ihe.net/index.php/Rad_Tech_Agenda_2023-02-06-10 (note - schedule is fluid)
    * Kinson Ho proposing using FHIR Cast - context orchestrator.  authorization defined, prefetching
    * 700 comments on last public comment for IMR
  * Another relevant IHE Profile - prioritization of worklists for reporting (POWR)
    * Talks about input from systems that want to adjust the worklist depending upon output of AI
    * https://wiki.ihe.net/index.php/Reporting_Worklist_Prioritization_-_Proposal
  * Prefetching is possible in PACS (for imaging) and can include an EHR Chart
    * 15-20 seconds sounds long  
  * Wireshark

* What is everyones experience with different study sizes (by modality) - Aviram
  * Average Study Size 
    * Varies based on customer type (small vs academic medical center)
    * Varies based on compression
  * Average Studies/Year 
    * S < 50,000
    * M < 100,000
    * L < 500,000
    * XL < 1.5M
    * XXL > 1.5M

CR = 25 MB
CT = 90 MB
MR = 90 MB
US = wide range depending on multi frames.  If no multi-frames, 20 MB.  If multi frames, 100 MB
PT/CT = 120 MB

* https://pacshealth.com/ - hooks into your PACS db to get various metrics

* ChatGPT Radiology Report Generation
  * https://old.reddit.com/r/Radiology/comments/10syjbc/now_you_can_spice_up_your_boring_normal_cxr/  



* PACS Migrations Guidance Project
  * Next Week: Architectural limitations of current systems
