# 2023-10-02

## Agenda

* Photometric Interpretation and compressed transfer syntaxes
  * Uncompressed image with YBR_422 photometric interpretation and wanted to compress with HTJ2K
  * Cornerstone library assumes that color images after decompression are in RGB encoding
  * What is the correct way to do this for compressed transfer syntaxes?
    * are you supposed to convert other photometric interpretations into RGB before compressing?
  * In DICOM - the image compression header trumps the DICOM attributes
    * Rows, Columns, Pixel Layout, Bits Allocated, Bits Stored, Signed/Unsigned
  * When decoding JPEG2000/HTJ2K - you should check to see if a color transform was employed and if so - convert it to RGB for display
  * When encoding to JPEG2000/HTJ2K you should check the source photometric interpretation and if YBR, apply color transform flag to avoid losing data precision
  * TODO: File bug in CornerstoneJS to fix this behavior
  * TODO: Audit the other transfer syntaxes for color transform support
  * TODO: Look into existing blogs on this?  Talk to David Clunie

* Latest thinking on DICOM Anonymization
  * Expereinces that people can share?
  * Has the trend moved more towards storing PHI in the cloud?
    * high percentage >80% of new vna/pacs projects are cloud
  * What anonymization takes place on premise side
  * Using off the shelf software?  Building it themselves?
  * Metadata and Pixel Data
  * Any experience with anonymization and LLMs in the cloud
  * Univ. Misourri Columbia
    * Want you to work in their "air gapped" area
    * Has a long wait list - may be 2 years before you get access
  * MIT is very open - just need to go through their training course then you get access for 3 years
    * MIMIC - EMR data only
  * PACSBIN
    * Everything de-identified before uploaded to cloud
    * Each instituion has its its own process for approving de-identification of data
    * Half (?) run their data through PACS BIN default anonymizer and verify
    * Other half have more strict internal process where they have to do the de-identification first, dumped into preprocessed bucked, then can query the bucket
  * Do customers use the DICOM De-identification profiles?
    * not very often
  * What about HIPAA safe harbor?
    * Some? DICOM de-identification profiles are compliant with this
  * Some organizations require that you sign a document that you won't try to re-identify the patient
  * Some orgqnizations will ask you to sign a BAA just "in case" 



