# 2024-02-26

## Agenda

- DICOMv4
  - Next (last?) meeting today
  - Need for better documentation
    - Minimize the standard? Get rid of stuff that isn't used
    - Reorganize to make it more readable?
    - Add official "entry documentation"
  - SIIM Webinar on DICOMv4 coming up in April 24 @ noon Central - David Clunie and Chirs Hafey
  - SIIMCast about DICOM v4 - in future
- DICOM Knowledge
  - how to determeine what you know and how well?
    - SIIM CIIP Program
  - PACS admin is a natural career progression path for Technologists
- Colorbar User Interface - how is this normally done?
  - https://www.cornerstonejs.org/live-examples/colorbar
  - Rare for users to change the colormap (typically want the same one applied automatically for a given procedure - eg MR Perfusion. Having the color bar always visible is probably not desired
  - The actual numbers (WW/WC) are not that important - user just modifies it manually to get the visual effect they want
- Healthsystems and "one throat to choke" for Enterprise Imaging
  - Avoids vendors pointing finger at each other
  - Deconstructed PACS is mostly "dead"
  - How do CIOs view Enterprise Imaging vs EHR?
  - One AMC that was known for being innovative/progressive adopted epic and innovation really slowed down.
    - Everything has to work with epic
  - Is your PACS team older? A lot of knowledge has been lost as the original people have retired/moved on
  - Imaging is still separate from EHR (silos/different expertise)
  - Surpising that EHRs have not added enterprise imaging functionality (other than RIS)
  - Radiology is a profit center so have a bit more power/control over things
- Has AI research overloaded the pipe for new applications?
  -
- C++ Package Management
- Rust language growth
