# 2024-08-19

## Agenda 
  * Management of this meeting to change:
    * Meetings still taking place over Zoom
    * Will publish an `.ics` calendar invite on GitHub
    * Channel on Conrnerstone for these community meetings
    * Public website space on OHIF's Discourse
    * Timing TBD (won't be for at least a few more weeks). Adequate notice to be given!
  * IHE NA Connectathon (Toronto, February 2025)
    * Information session Tuesday 8/27 at Noon
    * Three technical streams:
      * IHE profile testing: Passed results public (otherwise remains private)
      * Plugathon: i.e. hackathon. Engineers show up and tinker. Try to help start-ups and Canadian companies.
      * Projectathon: Pan-Canadian patient summary, in coordination with International Patient Summary (and European versions)
    * More IRA (Integrated Real-time Applications) testing
    * More information re: pricing, etc. coming September 9th
    * Non-profit. Not expecting to make money off the Connectathon. Canada's Health Infoway is co-sponsoring
    * Take survey here: https://www.iheusa.org/node/131
  * Things the industry needs: Hanging protocols that works
    * Radiologists constanly asking for it.
    * Some modalities still create series with description of date/time, nothing useful
    * Structured data capture may help. Foreign exam management (IHE IDEP).
    * Vector Institute (Toronto, Canada) did a project on this well a few years ago
    * Review pixel data to indentify body part and type of exam
    * Some vendors using NLP to try and correct series naming
    * PACS vendors also have to cater to disagreement across radiologists with one institutions
    * Khaled working with the SIIM Research Committee on Multi-modal AI
    * Related-paper https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC7256138/
